---
title: 'Reporting'
teaching: 5
exercises: 3
---

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: questions 

- What tools are available in the BitCurator environment for analyzing disk images or directories of data tranferred from legacy media?
- How can librarians and archivists capture basic system characteristics and metadata?
- How can they scan for for potentially sensitive information?

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: objectives

- Gain experience with:
  - Brunnhilde, a reporting tool for directories and disk images;
  - Bulk Extractor and Bulk Reviewer, which scans for credit card numbers, emails, etc.; and
  - `fiwalk`, to print filesystem statistics
- Discover ways to learn more about the reporting functionality in the BitCurator Environment.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Reporting in BitCurator is essentially a method of generating technical and preservaiton metadata about a disk image or directory of data.

At a high level, you will be using, and creating a workflow piecing together:
- a "map" of the disk image, which records relationships, integrity (checksums), names, timestamps, etc. (this is in DFXML); 
- a summary of the file types, duplicates, and other relationship information;
- tools for assessing Personally Identifialble Information (PII) and sensitive content; and 
- summaries of sensitive content, if discovered.

_**Note:** If you haven't yet created a disk image or otherwise have a directory of data to work with, you can download sample data from BitCurator's Github site and work with that: [bcc-dfa-sample-data](https://github.com/bitcurator/bcc-dfa-sample-data)._

One possible structure to group content and metadata:

```
c4l24_bicuratorintro_group0X_image0XX/              <-- parent directory (sample name)
│
├── reports/                                        <-- subdirectory for detailed metadata (use mkdir)
│   ├── beout/				                              <-- bulk extractor reports (generated by bulk_extractor)
│   ├── brunn_output/		                            <-- brunnhilde reports (generated by brunnhilde.py)
│   └── mappedfeatures/                             <-- sensitive info (generated by identify_filenames.py)
│
├── c4l24_bicuratorintro_group0X_image0XX_dfxml.xml <-- DFXML (E01 “map” generated by fiwalk)
├── c4l24_bicuratorintro_group0X_image0XX.E01 			<-- disk image (generated by Guymager)
└── c4l24_bicuratorintro_group0X_image0XX.info      <-- disk image metadata (from Guymager)	
```

## Reporting

BitCurator includes a variety of tools to analyze and report on disk images and the filesystems they contain.

### Analyzing a Disk Image with Brunnhilde

One such tool is Brunnhilde, a Seigfried-based characterization tool for directories (and disk images). Open up the Terminal, and use the command `brunnhilde.py --help` to view Brunnhilde's usage information. Alternatively, you can find Brunnhile from the Applications menu.

### bulk_extractor and Bulk Reviewer

#### Scanning Disk Images and Directories with Bulk Reviewer

#### Scanning Disk Images, Files, and Directories with bulk_extractor

## fiwalk

include info from planning doc
Are we explaining the “so what?” and what you may use reports for, how useful are they, etc?
Characterizing it more as creation of technical/preservation metadata
Some reports may be needed for contextualizing and using the disc images in other programs (dfxml)
Some reports may be more for risk management and analyzing PII
Some may be more for preservation planning (file types)
Some may be for general description (dates of creation, titles/names of files, users, or other topical information)
	

## Additional resources
